Start container Start page header MediaEval Benchmarking Initiative for Multimedia Evaluation The `` multi '' in multimedia : speech , audio , visual content , tag , user , context End page header Start Sidebar wrapper Start Navigation End navigation Start sidebar content Sidebar header sidebar content you enter in the page inspector sidebar content such as the blog archive link End sidebar content End sidebar wrapper Start main content wrapper Start content Task description This task focus on the problem of predict how memorable a video be to viewer .
It require participant to automatically predict memorability score for video that reflect the probability a video will be remember .
Task participant be provide with an extensive dataset of video that be accompany by memorability annotation , as well as pre-extracted state-of-the-art visual feature .
The ground truth have be collect through recognition test , and thus result from objective measurement of memory performance .
Participants will be require to train computational model capable of infer video memorability from visual content .
Optionally , descriptive title attach to the video may be use .
Models will be evaluate through standard evaluation metric use in rank task ( Spearman ’ s rank correlation ) .
The data set use in 2019 , be the same as in 2018 ( 2018 ’ s testset ground truth data have not be release ) .
This year the task focus on understand the pattern in the data and improve the ability of algorithm to capture those pattern .
Task motivation and background The motivation for the task be the growth over recent year in the amount of multimedia content share and consume via online platform .
Enhancing the usefulness of multimedia require new way to organize–in particular , to recommend and retrieve–digital content .
Like other aspect relate to video relevance , such as aesthetic or interestingness , memorability can be regard as useful to help make a choice between compete video .
Effective memorability prediction model will also push forward the semantic understanding of multimedia content by put human cognition and perception at the center of the multimedia analysis .
A number of different application area benefit from deep understanding of what make some video memorable , and others less so .
These area include recommendation and retrieval in online platform , already mention , but also advertising , filmmaking , and education .
It be increasingly important to understand what make video memorable in order to keep the use of automatic processing technique evenhanded .
Applications can make use of information about predict memorability , but it be important to understand memorability well enough to be able to avoid system that be hyper-optimized to viewer response .
Target group Researchers will find this task interest if they work in the area of human perception and the impact of multimedia on perception such as image and video interestingness , memorability , attractiveness , aesthetic prediction , event detection , multimedia affect and perceptual analysis , multimedia content analysis , machine learning ( though not limit to ) .
Data The dataset be compose of 10,000 ( soundless ) short video extract from raw footage use by professional when create content , and in particular , commercial .
Each video consist of a coherent unit in term of meaning and be associate with two score of memorability that refer to it probability to be remember after two different duration of memory retention .
The video be share under Creative Commons license that allow their redistribution .
They come with a set of pre-extracted feature , such as : Dense SIFT , HoG descriptor , LBP , GIST , Color Histogram , MFCC , Fc7 layer from AlexNet , C3D feature , etc .
Ground truth and evaluation Each video consist of a coherent unit in term of meaning and be associate with two score of memorability that refer to it probability to be remember after two different duration of memory retention .
Memorability have be measure use recognition test , i.e.
, through an objective measure , a few minute after the memorization of the video , and then 24 to 72 hour later .
The output of the prediction model – i.e.
, the predicted memorability score for the video – will be compare with ground truth memorability score use classic evaluation metric ( e.g.
, Spearman ’ s rank correlation ) .
Recommended reading [ 1 ] Romain Cohendet , Claire-Hélène Demarty , Ngoc Q. K. Duong , Mats Sjöberg , Bogdan Ionescu , Thanh-Toan Do .
2018 .
MediaEval 2018 : Predicting Media Memorability .
In Working Notes Proceedings of the MediaEval 2018 Workshop .
Sophia Antipolis , France , 29-31 October 2018 .
[ 2 ] Aditya Khosla , Akhil S Raju , Antonio Torralba , and Aude Oliva .
2015 .
Understanding and predict image memorability at a large scale .
In Proc .
IEEE Int .
Conf .
on Computer Vision ( ICCV ) .
2390–2398 .
[ 3 ] Phillip Isola , Jianxiong Xiao , Devi Parikh , Antonio Torralba , and Aude Oliva .
2014 .
What make a photograph memorable ?
IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence 36 , 7 ( 2014 ) , 1469–1482 .
[ 4 ] Hammad Squalli-Houssaini , Ngoc Duong , Marquant Gwenaëlle , and Claire-Hélène Demarty .
2018 .
Deep learning for predict image memorability .
In Proc .
IEEE Int .
Conf .
on Audio , Speech and Language Processing ( ICASSP ) .
[ 5 ] Junwei Han , Changyuan Chen , Ling Shao , Xintao Hu , Jungong Han , and Tianming Liu .
2015 .
Learning computational model of video memorability from fMRI brain imaging .
IEEE transaction on cybernetics 45 , 8 ( 2015 ) , 1692–1703 .
[ 6 ] Sumit Shekhar , Dhruv Singal , Harvineet Singh , Manav Kedia , and Akhil Shetty .
2017 .
Show and Recall : Learning What Makes Videos Memorable .
In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition .
2730–2739 .
[ 7 ] R. Cohendet , K. Yadati , N. Duong , C-H. Demarty .
2018 .
Annotating , understanding , and predict long-term video memorability .
In proc .
ACM Int .
Conf .
on Multimedia Retrieval ( ICMR ) .
[ 8 ] Romain Cohendet , Claire-Hélène Demarty , Ngoc Q. K. Duong , M. Engilberge .
VideoMem : Constructing , Analyzing , Predicting Short-term and Long-term Video Memorability .
2018 .
Arxiv:1812.01973 Please note that a dataset for predict long-term video memorability be publicly available with [ 7 ] at the following address : Task organizer Mihai Gabriel Constantin , University Politehnica of Bucharest , Romania Bogdan Ionescu , University Politehnica of Bucharest , Romania Claire-Hélène Demarty , Technicolor , France Quang-Khanh-Ngoc Duong , Technicolor , France Xavier Alameda-Pineda , INRIA , France Mats Sjöberg , CSC , Finland Task auxiliaries Liviu-Daniel Ştefan , University Politehnica of Bucharest , Romania Ricardo Savii , Federal University of São Paulo , Brazil Task schedule Development data release : 1 May 2019 Test data release : 03 June 2019 Runs due : 20 September 2019 Working Notes paper due : 30 September 2019 MediaEval 2019 Workshop ( in France , near Nice ) : 27-29 October 2019 End content End main content wrapper Start Footer Start the breadcrumb wrapper End breadcrumb © 2020 MediaEval Multimedia Benchmark End Footer
